  module 1 [ovwerview of it indstry]



Q1  What is software? What is software engineering?
ans  Software: s/w is the language of computer.
- is a collection of computer programs and related data that provide the instructions for 
telling a computer what to do and how to do it.
- Just like human language.
- 3 main groups depending on their use and application.
1) System software / operating system.
2) Application s/w
3) Programming language

(2)  Software: a Program or set of Programs containing instructions which provide desired 
functionality.
Engineering: Process of designing and building something that ensure particular purpose. 
Software Engineering:
―Software engineering is the art of developing quality software on time and within
budget.‖
Software Engineering is a systematic approach to the design, development, operation,
and maintenance of a software system.
A naive view: Problem Specification Final Program 
But..



Q2   Explain types of software
ans  1) System s/w or OS:
- provides the basic functions for computer usage and helps to run the computer hardware 
and system.
- is the s/w used by the computer to translate inputs from various sources into a language 
which a machine can understand.
- Basically OS coordinates the different hardware components of a computer.
- Ex. Linux, window, macOS, Android, iOS
2) Application s/w:
- is the general designation of computer programs for performing user tasks.
- Types of application s/w
1) Mobile app:
- Application that run on mobile
- Ex. Instagram, facebook, etc
2) Desktop app:
- That run stand-alone in a desktop or laptop computer.
- Ex. Microsoft office suite which includes Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
- Ex. Outlook for email, and firefox, Google Chrome, Mozilla are the web browser.
- Anti-virus is an application and so is the media player.
3) Web app:
- That run on a web browser
- ex. google.com, facebook.com, etc
3) Programming s/w:
- is the process of designing, writing, testing, debugging, and maintaining the source code 
of computer programs.
- This s/w is pawritten in a programming language.
- The purpose of programming is to create a program that exhibits a certaindesired 
behavior.
- Ex. c++, html, java, Simlab, php, Python and Visual basic






Q3  What is SDLC? Explain each phase of SDLC
ans  SDLC is a structure imposed on the development of a software product that defines the 
process for planning, implementation, testing, documentation, deployment, and ongoing 
maintenance and support. There are a number of different development models.
   A Software Development Life Cycle is essentially a series of steps, or phases, that 
provide a model for the development and lifecycle management of an application or piece 
of software.
   The methodology within the SDLC process can vary across industries and organizations, 
but standards such as ISO/IEC 12207 represent processes that establish a lifecycle for 
software, and provide a mode for the development, acquisition, and configuration of 
software systems.

SDLC Phases
Requirements Collection/Gathering       Establish Customer Needs
Analysis                                Model And Specify the requirements- ―What‖
Design                                  Model And Specify a Solution – ―Why‖
Implementation                          Construct a Solution In Software
Testing                                 Validate the solution against the requirements
Maintenance                             Repair defects and adapt the solution to the new
requirements



Q4  What is DFD? Create a DFD diagram on Flipkart
ans        A Data Flow Diagram (DFD) is a traditional way to visualize the information flows
within a system. A neat and clear DFD can depict a good amount of the system requirements
graphically. It can be manual, automated, or a combination of both.
It shows how information enters and leaves the system, what changes the information and 
where information is stored. The purpose of a DFD is to show the scope and boundaries of a 
system as a whole. It may be used as a communications tool between a systems analyst and any 
person who plays a part in the system that acts as the starting point for redesigning a system.





Q5  What is Use case Diagram? Create a use-case on bill payment on paytm.
ans A use case diagram is a dynamic or behavior diagram in UML. Use case diagrams model the functionality of a system using actors and use cases.
 Use cases are a set of actions, services, and functions that the system needs to perform







